Let's look, now, at some practical uses
for unpacking tuples. Although I hadn't
covered it at the time, we unpacked a
tuple a few lectures ago, when we looked
at the enumerate function. enumerate is a
very useful function, when you need the
index positions, while iterating over a
sequence. So let's open that file,
and the name of the file was enumerate_example.
Let's see how the tuple's being unpacked
in that code. So on line 1, we've got two
variables in our for loop; we've got
index and character. Each time around the
loop, index gets the index position, and
character gets the next character from
the string. To see how that works, it'll
be helpful to see exactly what enumerate
is returning. So what we're going to do is,
comment out both lines here, lines one and two.
Then we're going to use a loop
instead, so on line four I'm going to type
for t in enumerate, and in parentheses
I'm going to type abcdefgh.
Then we'll print t on the next line. We're still
using enumerate here, to iterate
over our string, but this time we're only
using one variable. t will get the value
of whatever the next value of enumerate
is, as it iterates. So if we run the
program, and put a colon there, to make
the code valid, on line four. Run it.
You can see we've now got eight tuples in
the output. Each tuple contains the
index position and a character at that
position. I'm going to labour the point a
bit, here, and that's partly because this
can take a little while to understand
but also, unpacking tuples is a very
valuable technique. It's something that
programmers often forget, and they end up
writing pretty horrible code, as a result.
We're all guilty of that sometimes.
In the next video, I'll show a link to a
question in the Q&A section, where JP
forgot to unpack tuples in his answer.
So labouring the point here, our first line of
output is 0 comma and a in single quotes,
surrounded by parentheses, and that is a
tuple. Looking at our commented out code,
on line one, the first time around the loop
we'll do something like this code, which I'll
add. So on line 7, I'm going to type index
comma character, is equal to, and in
parentheses, zero comma and a in single
quotes and a right parenthesis, print index
and print character. So again, the first
time around the loop in this code, then
I'll do something like you can see.
You can see that two values are unpacked
from the tuple, each time around the loop.
We run the program now, just to
check that we get the value 0 for index
and a for character, and you can see,
that is the case at the bottom of the
output there. So that's what's happening
on line one.
Each time around the loop, index and
character are unpacked from the tuple
that enumerate creates. Now we can do
that inside our second for loop,
just to emphasize what's happening on
line one. So I'm going to add some code,
after line four there. I'm going to type
index comma character is equal to t,
and instead of printing t, what we're going
to do, we're going to print index comma character.
So now on line five, we unpack
the tuple to the two variables -
index and character - and we're then printing them out on line six. Run the program now.
You can see that we've got the correct
values in the output pane, each time
around the loop. So line one is just a
shorthand version of that. Instead of
storing each tuple in t, we unpack it as
we're iterating. Alright, let's end the
video here in the next one, we'll look at
another way to use tuples.
See you in the next video.